---
layout: default
title: Se lever à nouveau de bonne heure - Joshua Ferris
---
<br>
###### Langue: Francais -- November 23 - December 5. 
<br>
*I left Brookstone and went to the Pottery Barn. When I was a kid and everything inside our house was familiar, cheap, and ruined, walking into the Pottery Barn was like entering heaven. If they really wanted people to enjoy church, I thought back then, they should make everything in church look and smell like the Pottery Barn. My dream was to surround myself one day with everything in the store, with the wicker baskets and scented candles, the brushed-silver picture frames. But that was a long time ago. I had already gone through a period of buying everything there was to buy at the Pottery Barn and decorating my apartment like a Pottery Barn outlet, and then getting rid of it all during a massive upgrade. Now everything at the Pottery Barn looked ersatz and mass-produced. To buy any of it now would be to regress in aspiration and selfhood. I didn’t want to buy anything at the Pottery Barn so much as I wanted to recapture the feeling of wanting to buy everything from the Pottery Barn. Something similar happened at the music store. I should try to find some new music, I thought, because there was a time when new music could lift me out of a funk like nothing else. But I wasn’t past the Bs when I saw the only thing I really cared to buy. It was the Beatles’ Rubber Soul, which had been released in 1965. I already owned Rubber Soul. I had owned Rubber Soul on vinyl, then on cassette, and now on CD, and of course on my iPod, iPod mini, and iPhone. If I wanted to, I could have pulled out my iPhone and played Rubber Soul from start to finish right there, on speaker, for the sake of the whole store. But that wasn’t what I wanted. I wanted to buy Rubber Soul for the first time all over again. I wanted to return the needle from the run-out groove to the opening chords of “Drive My Car” and make everything new again. That wasn’t going to happen. But, I thought, I could buy it for somebody else. I could buy somebody else the new experience of listening to Rubber Soul for the first time. So I took the CD up to the register and paid for it and, walking out, felt renewed and excited. But the first kid I offered it to, a rotund teenager in a wheelchair looking longingly into a GameStop window, declined on the principle that he would rather have cash. A couple of other kids didn’t have CD players. I ended up leaving Rubber Soul on a bench beside a decommissioned ashtray where someone had discarded an unhealthy gob of human hair. I wandered...*

<br>
Milestone - le premier roman traduit en français ce qui j'ai lu en format papier, sans une édition digitale pour aider (celui-là)

##### Review
This story is powerful and haunting, and hit a lot of nerves. To turn from it would have meant to turn away from myself.

Paul O Rourke is depressed, doomed, fatherless, rootless. His initial state is godless, nihilistic, without committing to the natural extension of his viewpoint, suicide. Lots of his views I've felt, only less developed.

This book showed me my ugly side - jealousy, abandonment, confusion. My brokenness, my fatherlessness, my drift, the loss of my roots. Hovering around intact units - Zach, Adam, Daniel, Jess, in vain, like O Rourke. 

I like the last page. One eye on the bat and the other on the skies. I liked the exposés of his patients. Recessed gums, 6 months to live, a resplendissant pregnant lady, old eddy who lost his old dentist, the directeur, the irrational patient without the feeling of caries, Stuart, the statocroces, Connie's family. Connie, Betsy, Abby(?)

#### During this read I:
Got a bed after 3 months of 'alternative sleeping' + room Feng shui

Found the Simulacra Easter egg in the matrix.

Decided to stay on 2e until C2 at least - maybe years?

Restarted bullet journalling.

Started flossing twice daily - because of the book.

Went out with alenne & Kassandra.

Helped Stephen move, got to know Aaron better - clam chowder.

Decided to go out with Kevin.

Started fasting until noon, 2 meals a day - stomache improving a lot. Lots of butter, still gassy, but less so.

Watched B almost hit 20 for a week straight.

Using metronome for breathing exercises.

Board Games with Anastasia & ingénieur civil - Robin Hood.

Howling with Francis.

Thought of cool Colorado mornings.

Conceived album art project and bought the binder.

Contemplated with Simon about his breakup. He's very impressively looking up, he pointed out my obvious body dysmorphia.

Realized my desire for BC was mostly a color copy desire to flee my feelings which was almost exactly my 2017 Revelstoke move except replace jess with kiri.

Bought a bougeoir.

No handlebars and 'no handlebars'.

Spoke with Keaton - tipping point to Toronto Christmas? Luna also thinks I should go. I should, if only for fresh perspective.

Considered once more Hammerstein's 4 classes of officers.
